FairMoney is a credit-led mobile bank for emerging markets. The company was launched in 2017, operates in Nigeria and raised close to €50m from global investors like
 Tiger Global, DST & Flourish Ventures. The company has offices in France, Nigeria, Germany, Latvia, the UK, Türkiye, and India.
Watch the way FairMoney is building Africa's money story here





Roles and Responsibilities 

As a Collections Dialler Analyst at FairMoney, a microfinance institution based in Nigeria, your main duties and responsibilities will encompass, but are not limited to:


Demonstrate a deep understanding of the credit industry, particularly in relation to collections and recovery processes for unsecured loans.
Establish and define performance metrics to effectively measure the efficiency of the dialler system. Continuously track and enhance these metrics to drive improvements.
Utilize data analysis and analytical techniques to articulate business and operational problem statements. Propose potential solutions based on a comprehensive understanding
 of the problem's complexity.
Develop expertise in collections dialler data and functionality, utilizing data-driven insights to analyze user interactions with the system. Identify optimization opportunities based on these insights.
Create self-serve dashboards containing trend information and near real-time dashboards to evaluate the performance of recently launched features.
Proactively monitor and make necessary adjustments to the dialler systems to maximize campaign outcomes.
Implement corrective measures to address performance issues as they arise.

Requirements

Bachelor's degree preferred; an equivalent combination of education and experience may be substituted in lieu of a degree.
A minimum of two to three (2-3) years of related technical or call centre experience, with automated dialler management in a blended call environment.
Two to five (2-5) years of experience with SQL preferred, including data analysis, import, export, and presentation.
Proficiency in utilising BigQuery for data analysis and manipulation.
Strong expertise in Excel and Tableau for data analysis, reporting, and visualisation.
Proficient in the administration and utilisation of predictive dialler systems.
Familiarity with call centre operations and managing dialler campaigns in a blended call environment.
Experience in monitoring and analysing dialler performance metrics, such as abandonment rate, reach and connect rate, and agent productivity among other KPIs
Ability to troubleshoot dialler issues, identify root causes, and implement corrective actions to optimize performance.
Excellent communication skills to collaborate with cross-functional teams, including call center agents, supervisors, IT, and management.

Benefits

Private Health Insurance
Pension Plan
Training & Development
Recruitment Process

A screening call with the Senior Recruiter for 30 minutes.
Technical interview with the Data and Analytics team for 30-45 minutes.
Final Discussion with Dialler Manager for 30-45 minutes.

Desired Skills and Experience
BigQuery
Excel
Microsoft Excel
SQL
Tableau

See less
Set alert for similar jobs
Collections Analyst, Nigeria

Set alert
Benefits found in job post
Medical insurance
Pension plan
How you match
You’re in the top 25% of applicants based on your profile
Skills associated with the job post
Identified by LinkedIn

2 skills on your profile
Data Analysis and Analytical Skills